.Dd March 27, 2020
.Dt VTT-FILTER 1
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm vtt-filter
.Nd remove unwanted subtitles
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl ablv
.Op Fl e Ar pattern
.Op Fl K Ar encoding
.Ar files No ...
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
removes subtitles that match one or more
.Ar patterns ,
modifying each file in-place.
If no
.Ar files
are specified,
.Nm
reads from standard input instead.
.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a , -actions
Remove subtitles whose text is enclosed within
.Bq square
or
.Pq round
brackets.
Analoguous to using
.Ql -e \(aq^\e[\.+\e]$|^\e(.+\e)$\(aq .
.
.It Fl e Ar pattern , Fl -expr Ar pattern
An ECMAScript-compatible regular expression matching the text of unwanted subtitles.
The leading and trailing
.Ql /
delimiters are optional;
if omitted, flags may be specified using a scoped modifier.
For example,
.Ql /foo/i
can also be expressed as
.Ql (?i)foo .
This option may be specified multiple times.
.
.It Fl b , -bom
Insert a byte-order mark (U+FEFF) at the beginning of the output.
.
.It Fl e Ar name , Fl -encoding Ns = Ns Ar name
Specify the character encoding for input and output operations
.Pq default: Do Li utf8 Dc .
Supported encoding
.Ar names
are:
.Sy utf8 ,
.Sy ucs2 ,
.Sy utf16le ,
.Sy ascii ,
.Sy latin1 ,
and
.Sy binary .
Some of these are aliases; refer to Node.js\(cqs
.Li Buffer
API for detailed information about encoding types.
.
.It Fl l , -line-feeds
Use LF (Unix-style) line terminators in the output.
By default, CRLF (Windows-style) newlines are used to maximise compatibility between media players.
.
.It Fl v , -verbose
Print filtered subtitles to standard error.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Remove promotional spam from downloaded subtitles:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Nm Fl e Ar /OpenSubtitles/i Fl e Ar /yts-\e?subs/i Fl e Ar YIFY No *.srt
.Ed
.
.Pp
Remove non-verbal subtitles (actions) from
.Ar file.srt :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Nm Fl a No file.srt
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
Node.js's
.Li Buffer
API
.Pq Lk https://nodejs.org/api/buffer.html ,
for details of supported character encodings.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Copyright \(co 2019-2020
.An John Gardner Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
Openly released under the ISC license.
.
